Software Development Life Cycle

- Requirement Phase
- Design Phase
- Development Phase
- Deployment Phase
- Maintenance Phase

1. Requirement

Client gives requirementms, specifications, expectations.
All these are gathered by Business or Project Manager.

They inlude: 
    - how the product will be used
    - who will use it etc.


2. Design

It includes a detailed analysis of a new software based on requirementms.
This is the high priority phase in the development life cycle of a system
because the logical designing of the system is converted into physical designing.
The output of the requirement phase is a collection of things that are required,
and the design phase gives the way to accomplish these requirements. The decision of all
required essential tools such as programming language like Java, .NET, PHP,
a database like Oracle, MySQL, a combination of hardware and software to provide
a platform on which software can run without any problem is taken in this phase.

3. Development

After the successful completion of the requirement and design phase, the next step
is to implement the design into the development of a software system. In this phase
work is divided into small units, and coding starts by the team of developers according
to the design discussed in the previous phase and according to the requirements 
of the client discussed in requirement phase to produce the desired result.

Front-end developers develop easy and attractive GUI and necessary interfaces to interact 
with back-end operations and back-end developers do back-end coding according to the required 
operations. All is done according to the procedure and guidelines demonstrated by the project manager.

Since this is the coding phase, it takes the longest time and more focused approach 
for the developer in the software development life cycle.


4. Testing

Testing is the last step of completing a software system. In this phase, after getting the developed
GUI and back-end combination, it is tested against the requirements stated in the requirement phase.
Testing determines whether the software is actually giving the result as per the requirements
addressed in the requirement phase or not. The Development team makes a test plan to start the test.
This test plan includes all types of essential testing such as integration testing, unit testing,
acceptance testing, and system testing. Non-functional testing is also done in this phase.

If there are any defects in the software or it is not working as per expectations,
then the testing team gives information to the development team in detail about the issue.
If it is a valid defect or worth to sort out, it will be fixed, and the development team replaces
it with the new one, and it also needs to be verified.


5. Deployment

When software testing is completed with a satisfying result, and there are no
remaining issues in the working of the software, it is delivered to the customer
for their use.

As soon as customers receive the product, they are recommended first to do the beta testing.
In beta testing, customer can require any changes which are not present in the software but
mentioned in the requirement document or any other GUI changes to make it more user-friendly.
Besides this, if any type of defect is encountered while a customer using the software;
it will be informed to the development team of that particular software to sort out the problem.
If it is a severe issue, then the development team solves it in a short time; otherwise,
if it is less severe, then it will wait for the next version.

After the solution of all types of bugs and changes, the software finally deployed to the end-user.

6. Maintenance

The maintenance phase is the last and long-lasting phase of SDLC because it is the process which
continues until the software's life cycle comes to an end. When a customer starts using software,
then actual problems start to occur, and at that time there's a need to solve these problems. 
This phase also includes making changes in hardware and software to maintain its operational effectiveness 
like to improve its performance, enhance security features and according to customer's requirements with 
upcoming time. This process to take care of product time to time is called maintenance.

"So, all these are six phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) under which the process of development of software 
takes place. All are compulsory phases without any one of the development cannot be possible because development 
continues for the lifetime of software with maintenance phase".

